it began innocently enough in the winner
of 1952 a 17-game season under inaugural
head coach Larry Striplin against the
lights of the local YMCA and
Vanderbilt's B team you could have
imagined what Belmont basketball would
become
from NAIA juggernaut to NCAA tournament
darling Belmont has passed every stage
with high marks the tradition grows of
each passing year well I think imagining
is a good word because it's really all
when when you walk into striven gym in
1986 really all I try to do is kind of
win the next game you start out on a
journey like this I think you have to
have faith that you will get there we
didn't know what that process was going
to look like you know that's what a
coach needs to do start focusing too far
in the future or sets too many lofty
goals we just tried to get better I
think when my predecessor bill trout
made the decision several years ago to
go directly from na I to Division one
even he didn't envision the success that
we would have by now and I know he's so
proud of it as well we knew that Belmont
afforded us every opportunity to have
success to have arenas like we've gotten
the curve event center to win conference
championships to play on national level
and so yeah we we imagined it we just
didn't know what the script look like
the level of competition may have
changed for Belmont but the results have
largely stayed the same steady
uncompromising success led by longtime
head coach Rick Berg one of the
winningest coaches in college basketball
today bird is the Belmont University
fixture playing for championships and
playing for Coach bird has bought
players to belmont university for nearly
a quarter-century coach bird brings a
lot of things at the table i think is
his best asset though it would be his
passion and we're down he lifts us up
you know we don't really know how we're
gonna be you know he gives us direction
and God's this you know Coach bird is a
perfect fit because I think he has a
true love this institution I think he
wants to represent a belmont in the
first-class way and everything he does I
like the personnel like the coaches I
like the teammates I just felt the
atmosphere it's been fun to watch us
transition from a small school it was an
pin that who really didn't have a shot
at making tournament to getting into a
conference it's been a dream come true
for me to make it to the NC double-a
tournament twice you know once was great
and then you go again it's great how the
opportunity go one more time it's really
I'm really looking forward to that I
mean you're sitting at Stadium there's
15,000 people in this arena you know
something you dream up as a kid and your
backyard cute shooting jump shots
everybody's cheering the other team is
this cheering for their team million
things are going through your mind at
the same time the first thing that you
can think of it's just i'm planing NCAA
tournament so it's pretty it's pretty
amazing feeling perhaps the only thing
more impressive than coach birds
win-loss record is his commitment to
academic achievement since its arrival
in the Atlantic Sun Conference six years
ago Belmont basketball has produced 58
academic all-conference honorees far and
away the benchmark for the week and
arguably the program's three finest
players of the NCAA era West Bergner at
a mark and Justin hair have all been
named NCAA academic all-americans I
think that's the most special thing
about Belmont is the attitude that our
student-athletes bring to the University
their students first an athlete second
they win in the classroom and they went
on the court the culture on our
basketball team is to do well in the
classroom and sadly that's not always
the case in college athletics a college
basketball in particular one of the
reasons i chose Bell miles first because
I want to get a good education and I
felt like they provided it's not
negotiable it's kind of one of those
things that they expect us to do well in
the classroom and you know they're not
going to make exceptions for success on
the court so it's a win-win all mites
proud of our student-athletes our
student-athletes are proud to be at
Belmont at least for our basketball
program belmont university affords us a
quality education for us to promote the
academic center with in beaumont
athletics is just part of the program's
signature facility the curb events
center open for play in the fall of two
thousand three the curb events dinner is
renowned multi-purpose arena home
not only to Belmont basketball and
volleyball the curb event center sports
top of the line locker room strength and
conditioning and athletic training space
from an energized environment on game
day to offseason training regimens the
curb Events Center gives Delmont
basketball an edge in terms of a
facility it really just it legitimizes
the fact that we're NC Double A Division
one basketball program when recruits
come in here on their visits and see
this facility they know that Belmont
means business about winning basketball
games I think what my curb did in making
that lead gift to this event center
changed everything for Belmont I think
it created a venue for our sports teams
and entertainment center for the campus
a symbol for the students that Belmonts
on the move the battle the boulevard the
Lipscomb versus Beaumont game is always
a huge game for us just to have so much
of that excitement and pride in your
school that a lot of the student body
would come to such a big game it's just
really it's a really special thing that
not a lot of schools have there's some
bigger venues but there's not a better
one than the curb center we we love the
curb one thing's for sure the bell Mike
basketball community is a tight-knit
family people united by common bonds
faith shared experiences and dreams
people who have a complete appreciation
what belmont university stands for to
live by the values of teamwork sacrifice
and good sportsmanship so what does it
mean to be it ruin to be a Bruin means
to live life with your coworkers routine
everybody in the belmont community to be
a Bruin means to really have pride and
and want to see Belmont succeed on all
levels to be a Bruin means to be a part
of something you can really be proud of
to coming and cheer for student athletes
were true student-athletes whoo-hoo it's
it's fun to cheer for every game out to
be a broom means my childhood dreams are
coming true I'm doing exactly what I
wish I would be doing when I was a
little kid and that's a lot of fun
you